welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to Sam's business
growth show I am humbled today to be
joined by Blake Johnson
Blake is the CEO of outbound view
Blake's host of the next best customer
podcast and he's our three times
start-up founder late welcome to the
show how you doing my friend I'm doing
awesome thank you so much for having me
I love this show
cheers man really excited to have you on
and and so is everyone tuning in so
there's a few things we'd love to learn
from your good self today Blake we
really want to know your top digital
marketing strategies and perhaps some
offline ones too that have helped you to
scale outbound for you to where it is
today we'd love to know a little bit
more about how you've actually growing
that business up over the you this
before we get to that it would be really
interesting to know your story so where
you grew up some of the key places that
you've worked at up to now and if you
could share with us some of the lessons
in perhaps sales and perhaps marketing
in business that you learn along the way
and and yeah give us a bit of value and
give us knowledge into your expertise
and journey so far sir absolutely yeah
will do is he I'm originally from
Lincoln Nebraska live in Nashville now
but spent you know we've only been in
natural for a few years so that's where
where I grew up and spent most of my
time and so yeah you know it's weird
most people say that they kind of like
stumbled into sales and it's not really
the case for me like when I was in
college I kind of knew that I would be
in sales oh they got a marketing major
and then rudely after college started
building ecommerce sites with a few
buddies and so I was doing that on the
side well kind of focusing more on the
enterprise sales was my my full-time
full-time gig but you know some of the
stuff we did around e-commerce is really
the only reason I was able to start out
roundview because you know when you get
in and start an e-commerce company you
learn things like building landing pages
you learn things like SEO and paid and
affiliates and just all of these
different channels and you know going
through an e-commerce it's
difficult right I mean you're going all
the way to get somebody to give you
their credit card and purchase and on
the b2b side where you know I spent most
of my like sales and enterprise sales
career you're just trying to get them to
give you their contact information so I
always thought that was a little bit
easier than b2c I mean be to be is you
know a little bit a little bit more
straightforward in my opinion so while I
was building the e-commerce sites worked
for a company they you know for eight
years in the human capital management
space that got acquired by IBM and I
mean that's where you know that's where
I learned pretty much everything from a
sales perspective whether that's inside
sales outside sales I'm gonna just I
worked with some of the most incredible
like mentors and sales leaders there
that you know took me basically a year
out of college for the point where you
know I was doing a more enterprise type
sales so what kind of stuff we we
dealing with in terms of what were you
selling that Blake so software you know
recruiting software talent management
software behavioral assessments
employment surveys kind of everything on
me how do you hire the best people and
then once you have them you know how do
you retain them so ya spent a ton of
time there then that company got
acquired by IBM and I shortly I left
shortly thereafter and I've been in and
out of kind of startup world since then
so started a company went and ran a
start-up for a couple years before
starting outbound view you know three
years ago and have been been doing that
since alyssum month so yeah the software
company or eight years I'm guessing
there's a few lessons that you've
learned in terms of sales marketing in
business perhaps you could tell us a bit
more about coming straight out of
college or a year out of college rather
and it sounds like that there may be a
steep learning curve they may have not
you may have already been a pretty hot
seller may have already been pretty hot
a business but yeah if it's a bit more
insight into some of the things you
learned what sure there'll be great well
I think I had the new I know I had the
drive but it was really really wrong no
I mean I had really good mentors from a
sales leadership perspective
and so when I got in I was doing inside
sales so we were doing inside sales at
what you know we were calling a lot and
we were dealing with inbound leads but
we were also doing things like as an
inside sales person we were running
first level demos you know we were I
mean it was just a full you know kind of
throw you into a sales process type
place and yeah I learned a ton
especially from those sales leaders you
know how they think about deals how they
prioritize their time how they think
about messaging I mean just all of those
little things when you're in in college
or coming out of college you just you
know you just don't know the right way
to do things and like I said I'm yet to
work at a place that had as good of
leaders as the that company a company
was called kinnexa but just a yeah
incredible place to learn interesting so
running great demos it's not something
we talked about that much on the show
are there any tips you could perhaps
share with us Blake on how to run
successful demos because I guess we've
all been there right where we've had
them we've put the demo through a
website whatever it may be the sales
reps put the time in with us and then
we've got started up it's been an
absolute snoot for snoozefest 45 minutes
running through a deck you're really
none the ways of the USP of how they can
help you the pains they can solve for
you you fooling asleep they've asked you
if you're gonna buy and you've just
waked nothing
yep oh I know yeah that you know most
especially early in your career I know
this was something that I was doing or
less experienced reps what they want to
do is just get through the demo right
it's like it's a check the box type
thing meaning what they signed up for a
demo I'm gonna show them this feature in
that feature most of the time people are
really interested in like one or two
things you know you know I just went
through a demo last week and I just you
know I hate I hate on first meetings
when people just dive straight into the
demo right like it just it it's a
usually a complete waste of time because
I can look at the website I kind of know
what you guys do but just tell me
exactly how you're solving these four or
five problems I'll show you those pieces
in the demo and then stop and be like do
you care to see the rest of it is this
resonating am i solving your core
problems that get you past 30 minute
intro conversation to deciding if you're
gonna buy and so that's where most
people fall rights like they just you're
typically like ten clicks at most away
from just showing them what they want to
see just stop there and then and then
literally say do you want to keep going
does this make sense how do i you know
dive into this problem further versus me
showing you the whole demo and every
little module we have when like I don't
care about yeah really really good point
and yeah I perfectly create a lot of
demos presentations whatever they are
proposals go on from for miles and miles
you people end up talking about that
company how good they are then they get
on to the issues then they go to your
goals and then eventually they'll show
you the solution does this fool down to
good discovery cools play to identifying
what the initial kind of business
problems or pains are and then
customizing a presentation that hits
those I mean for sure
you know I I worked for a sales training
company and they had something at the
beginning of every kickoff every call
that you have called like the purpose
benefit check and it's basically you
telling the prospect back to them here's
the purpose of why we're talking today
here's the benefit to you like here's
what you should get out of this and then
confirming checking with them is that
what you want to cover if everybody just
did that to start a beating you know it
would save a ton of time because a lot
of times what you think is the benefit
or the purpose of the call may not be
the purpose of the call for the prospect
so there's just little things like that
that you know the longer you do sales
you just start to really realize quickly
like yeah you need to ask good questions
of course that helps but you just it
becomes like something that you just
kind of lino to you know as people are
reaching out because they've been at
this company this long or they're in
this
industry or they put this in their
inquiry like this is probably the
problem you just need to confirm with
them that that's that's what the actual
problem is cool so it sounds like
setting a kind of upfront contract just
saying Lucas it's gonna take this long
to run through the demo today these are
the goals that we went through last time
and this is the time frame we discussed
is this still the case or not as yeah
maybe and then you're making best use of
your time as the salesperson or the
business owner and at the same time the
prospective customers time pressure yep
yep exactly
cool man okay well that's that's a nice
nice little piece on on demos and
presentations or like that cool okay and
I think the other thing you mentioned
was something about timing and messaging
and stuff like that is something you
picked up can you learn yeah for sure I
mean you know it's like everybody should
be reading books on copywriting I mean
we spend so much time at outbound view
on messaging because it just you know
there's so much noise that it has to be
really really good these days to get a
response on a cold message but the same
thing goes with messaging that you're
sending to prospects that are active in
the pipeline and the words that you use
you know whether you're using brevity
how you're communicating with that
person the back-and-forth like they're
just every time they see communication
preview they're ranking you in some way
against the competitors and so you know
you just have to be very thoughtful and
you have to think through exactly the
way that the way that you're
communicating back with each individual
prospect and so you know well it's
something that's ever-evolving and at
outbound bugh and with me I mean I like
you know last week was off of her
vacation was taking the afternoons
office at the beach with kiddos and I
was reading a book on copy you were
reading a book on copywriting right like
I know copywriting to some extent but
like it's something that's just always
always changing and you know messaging
resonates not only in biz
this but across personal everything that
you do nothing matters more than how you
communicate yeah and people don't spend
that much time trying to get better at
it you know it's interesting you should
raise that actually on I'm halfway
through reading civics really the
Challenger sale because believe it or
not I've read never read that book I'm
listening to a whole bunch of podcasts
because I always do and I'm also reading
one called the copy writers handbook I
believe it's called so yeah the funny if
only store is gonna get to is that the
other day I've spoken to a whole bunch
of guys and girls on this podcast about
how important that sells reps for
business owners create their own content
and basically market themselves I was
having a little LinkedIn debate with
someone the other day basically saying
that as well as marketing providing
salespeople with inbound leads they
should be generating their own and to be
able to do that they need to learn
skills that traditionally sales people
didn't have so in this case copywriting
which is gonna be really important for
cold email if you're an SDR or you want
to generate opportunities it's important
for LinkedIn to create engaging posts
and this guy basically had an argument
he's like no Sam salespeople shouldn't
waste their time on creating content
marketing should provide the needs and
they should be called out which surely
if you're getting inbound leads from
marketing and you're generating your own
inbound opportunities you're gonna be
beating quota rather than just sticking
at the average ma yeah yeah I really
it's all perspective and where you're at
right like if you are so flooded with
inbound leads that you can't do a good
job on your heelside then yes but that
is like 1% of what the dream it has that
problem yeah so I was having the same
conversation with someone recently and
it was talking about the profile of
hiring an inside sales person right so
you know think I don't know ten years
ago when Inside Sales was still a fairly
new assure all I mean it was still a
role but it wasn't this defined it as
this now you would look at a lot of the
sales type attributes you know you look
purely a drive you would have people
coming out of a pretty common background
for your degree all these types of
things like when I think inside sales
people now the number one thing that
they need to be able to do is commune
okay so you think like what's the mix of
you know English right or communication
or like things like theater like all of
these other things that you wouldn't
think of being a core sales person
especially in inside sales you know of
course they have to have the drive and
they have to be engaged to do that but a
lot of that's the company's
responsibility their innate talents
around understanding people psychology
those types of things like you're living
in a messaging world as an inside sales
person whether it's your cold call pitch
your custom email your sequins whatever
you're doing like that's the most
important attribute right now and so
it's it's very different now than ten
years ago and well you know what you
would look for is is very different
totally agree totally agree I think yeah
being versatile to a certain extent and
understanding there are so many
especially in b2b business the business
selling there's so many channels that
you can now connect with your buyers and
so LinkedIn being one of the key ones as
well as many others so if you are able
to create compelling content that's
gonna attract your ideal buyer and
driving around opportunities it's only
you can be an asset to yourself as well
as your business and yeah makes sense
man got it okay so moving forwards and
which was outbound view the next venture
did you say you worked a couple other
start support for that yep I did work at
a couple other a couple of other
startups before that but they're kind of
a similar story so yeah I'll refer to
outbound View a little bit more so I
decided to start outbound view because I
was consistently getting asked by people
in my network to help around kind of
inside sales and lead generation because
they knew I do it and it it started
purely with just a you know former
executive that I knew saying like come
on and work part time with me this will
help you start your business you know
I'll take up 20 hours and then you
figure out what to do with it and so it
started and I started purely in kind of
sales consulting and then shortly after
there went into more kind of a core
Legion and inside sales consulting and
so you know we started
with consulting specifically and it was
mostly just my network for the first
year so after that we made a very very
specific effort to invest in inbound
marketing content marketing and SEO
because we were moving from purely
inside sales consulting to more
outsourced sales development because it
was scalable and it was things that like
I didn't have to do like there's only so
much consulting you can do and you need
to be in the weeds and so we got our
first couple of clients but we invested
heavily in writing content and building
links for the site to kind of have it
slowly rank going after just really easy
terms because we didn't have domain rank
early on and most of what we did was
link building strategy I mean we were
putting good content out there but we
implemented a link building strategy
where we were trying to get like five
good links a month you know good and we
just kind of so-so that took off to
today where you know pretty much
everything we we get from an inbound
perspective is either from SEO right
ranking for all these different terms
around outsourced inside sales or inside
sales consulting you know that's 75% of
you know how we get leads like last
month we got 40 inbound leads you know
so we well I thought that it would be
way too much for grind to go outbound
for outsourced to inside sales and I
still stand by that I think some of the
bigger as you get bigger and you have
people and resources on staff it's one
thing there to just start you know
calling VPS of sales and asking if
they're outsourcing inside sales you'll
book meetings doing that but need the
benefit that we were gonna have of
growing our website and getting inbound
because then that could get us into
other things which is where we're at now
you know we do outsource sales
development we'd still do inside sales
consulting but now you know we've
launched services
you know contact data like building
lists for people doing all these other
things and now our websites in a spot
where you know we can go get keywords
that we never would have got a year or
two ago so inbound marketing was our
biggest focus just before we move on
so yeah so 40 leads a month is I'd say
pretty solid for a for a small b2b
company
I'd say that's very very good and so for
those listening in our thinking SEO is a
myth or I got burnt once by an SEO guy
that charged me $1,000 a month ran off
with my money six months later I was
none the wiser I'm having to ship all my
money and paid ads to all my sales reps
of cold-calling SEO is like the Beast
and why should why should companies
invest in SEO
in your opinion bleh well it's hey it is
absurd not to at some point you know
like it really you know it is the basis
of what you're telling that your
business does right
um and afford to spend $10,000 a month
initially but you can afford to get some
type of audit you know SEO audit here
the keywords I should be going after
here's what I should be doing for the
next six months and then create all the
content yourself and you know try and
build links and do all these other
things if you have the time and
capability to do it but you know we talk
with tons of these inbound leads that we
get that they think outbound is gonna
solve every little problem they have and
there are very few companies where
that's the case you need a very big
addressable market to exclusively be
able to build your business off about
bound so you know it's like yeah you
could punt it and do it six months down
the road but every day you're not doing
it you're you're you know hurting
yourself a year from now so if you plan
on being in business for a while it's a
it's like having a website it's a you
you have to do it at some point and you
can take it to you know spending a
couple thousand dollars a month or
spending you know a couple hundred
thousand a month it just depends how
nuts you want to go completely agreement
awesome okay so that's SEO
and so what other forms of marketing are
you guys doing I think you're gonna
mention some another inbound channel
then just right interrupted we're
getting into partnership marketing we're
doing a lot more of that and we'll be
doing a lot more of that moving forward
so the concept behind partnership
marketing is you know for example we
sell something called buyer intent data
someone like you you know you may have a
list of 10,000 people they're
subscribers to your business and they
should probably be using buyer intent
data you know they should at least be
testing or doing three trials to see if
it works well like outbound view
approaches Sam it says hey let's do some
you know a post or build some knowledge
around why your subscribers should care
about this you promote it to your list
you typically get some type of kickback
there your list learns about buyer
intent data and we take them down a
sales page so it's it's a knowledge
sharing basically between partners that
have similar buyer personas so let's
think we're doing that we'll be doing a
lot more of that we'll be getting a lot
more into paid as well we've done a
little bit of pay we do retargeting you
know just based baseline paid right now
maybe we just we don't we don't invest a
lot in it because we have enough inbound
leads for the size we want our outsource
sales development business to be but as
we get into data buyer intent and a some
different offerings the addressable
markets just huge and so we'll for sure
be diving into paid advertising further
awesome so this it's refreshing to hear
that you guys have pretty much taken on
a multi-channel approach so utilizing a
few different channels to gain leads and
not just relying on one to bring it all
in which is always always good to hear
from a business and yeah are there any
other channels be them digital be them
offline that have been successful be at
LinkedIn be a code outreach or those
those the main ones Blake that have
helped you guys I mean our team's active
on Linkedin we get opportunities on on
LinkedIn
um I wouldn't say it's a huge driver of
leads for us but uh you know it depends
we've you know we can associate a good
chunk of revenue to LinkedIn
and it's something especially on the
partner side you know that that we use
we use a lot so LinkedIn is very much a
part of what we do and will continue to
do moving forward excellent okay all
right like so anyone that's listening or
watching in right now so it's thinking
of taking that leap and starting their
own company or business or anyone that
just has have you got any gold nuggets
any little tips or a piece of advice
that may help them along the way yeah
yeah I mean there's so many I mean when
I first started outbound view I was
under pricing or services significantly
you know and so that's something that
you just learned after your six months
in to a couple of contracts and you're
like what am I do you know this is this
is to an equivalent for yeah so I mean
pricing is always a big one it's so easy
to you know go get a logo on Fiverr you
know a lot of people go kind of nuts on
the things that don't matter like how
awesome their website is and all of
these things that once you've figured
out that you have a business it's
probably gonna change from day one to a
year year-and-a-half and like your
offerings are gonna change so make your
website respectable like it needs to be
good enough but people go crazy on
spending thousands of dollars on logos
and thousands on graphic design and just
going nuts on super expensive websites
and they don't even really have a
business yet you know so you know the
easiest way to get in to starting your
own businesses start to doing
contracting consulting those types of
things inside of your network and then
you know typically those things will
just start to start to expand and grow
as you start to see all the different
problems once you're in the weeds you
know yeah it's it's like you're reading
my mind actually Blake talking about
branding talking about websites and
obviously that's what we do at web
choice now it's refreshing to hear often
when people come to me especially and
they say look we've got this massive
budget for a website and say well that's
all good and well and yes we can give
you a website that's gonna attract your
ideal customers build trust convert
leads whatever their goals and
objectives may be but more importantly
what are you pumping into marketing is
it this if you've got a school singing
or dancing website you're gonna want a
solid strategy that actually drives
people to it otherwise you're investing
all this money and no one's ever gonna
see it I know yeah you're you probably
play a similar role that I play we're
inbound leads you turn into like they're
fractional CMO right you're like well if
I had a hundred thousand dollars in
budget I'd set twenty aside for the
website and I'd put the rest into SEO
and lead gen and other things contact
lists you know whatever because a year
from now you'll be in a much different
spot and you'll probably have to redo
your website anyway you know there
probably have to significantly make
changes so yeah it's a you know how
you're allocating those early dollars
that you have around marketing it's just
it's tough we've wasted so much money
you know on different paid tests and
building landing pages and offerings and
stuff so just it happens to everybody
but you know being able to realize where
you should allocate those dollars is
pretty challenging definitely agree and
is there any habits that you follow
Blake have you only daily habits that
you think I've helped in your success or
that you recommend that anyone follows I
mean I I've been a really ricer I've
three young three young kids and so I'm
up anyway so I mean I typically like to
get a good hour and a half or two before
meetings start it really helps just for
me to work on kind of critical critical
projects and then there's at least one
or two days a week where I block off you
know a full afternoon or a full morning
really just to catch up on like it's so
easy in the business that we do to just
get up in client deliverables and list
building and all of these things that
have to be done you don't have time to
to step back and work on you know
where's this thing going six months from
now and so I just do my best to block
time and sometimes it fails and doesn't
work so yeah yeah you know yeah I at
least try you know that's it that's it I
just need to work on my early rising
we've just had a little baby boy our
first so each morning I'm set my alarm
gonna go for a run or gonna do a home
workout and then I've done regular three
feeds throughout the night I'm so tired
I can barely open my eyes it's like it's
my desk at 9:00 a.m. go through email
start making cause yeah this may you
know you may not be at the time where
you know you're gonna be able to do a
whole lot early in the morning you're
just gonna try and make it through the
day you need sleep something right oh
yeah I remember those days
yes good well oh good fun cool man so is
that one thing everyone's feeling in
today Blake should be doing with digital
marketing that is gonna benefit their
business I'm gonna go to do you one is
inbound strategy because we've talked
about that like it's fundamental SEO
like that is a piece the second is data
it's it's such a big dismissed by most
people they just subscribe to the crappy
you know crappiest little database or
maybe it's the most expensive b2b
database and everybody hires to solve
data and process issues whereas if they
just really had great data really had
great process they wouldn't need to hire
as many people and so data and process
all day and then as leads come in then
you hire most people have that backwards
they they they hire to solve in
efficiencies and it ends up costing them
when the economy goes down those types
of things happen so yeah those are visit
ood two big ones for me two good ones
two great ones month all right Blake so
to wrap things up if you could thank
just one person either dead or alive
having a positive influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why yeah so at that company that I that
I win
- or that I started out shortly after
her college there was a guy his name was
Zack Canaday he's been a sales mentor of
mine since theatre for the seven years
that I was there and I'm going just
can't thank him enough or kind of the
molding and mentoring just everything he
did along the way - to just be an
incredible coach so yeah there's there's
a Zack and a few other people at that
same organization that that you know
absolutely made a huge difference goes
from DS so you've been tuning into Sam's
business Scripture
well we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we found out their story how
digital marketing is helping along the
way and the exclusive tips and insights
to help you skyrocket your business and
Blake tell us a bit more about your
business how people can connect with you
and get in touch
yep so it's outbound view comm you know
our core offerings are outsourced sales
development you know outsourced
appointment setting and then we do
inside sales consulting and we're
growing heavily into the b2b data world
so data cleansing building lists all of
those types of things and so we're we're
trying to implement those systems
globally so yeah if you have any
questions you can find me outbound
vidcom or on LinkedIn Blake Johnston
owner outbound view just Blake thank you
very much for coming on Matt yeah thank
you so much had a great time are you
tired of constantly hunting for new
customers you could be missing out on
regular inbound opportunities all
because your website isn't on the first
page of Google perhaps you already
spending lots of money on advertising
but your website is failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow of new customers if
you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings ideal
clients straight to you connect with Sam
Dunning on LinkedIn or book a free 20
minute consultation by a web choice you
can calm that's web choice UK comm
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the
experts